It was long and trecherous way which led Lev to outscirts of Kingdom of Gord. But to understand everything you need to know the short, but bloody, history of Kingdom of Epyr. 
When Lomar Empire crushed the army of King Jos II by the help of iron weapons there was nothing to stop them from plundering the Kingdom of Rond. Those who had enough wealth, or influance, abandoned their home and set sail to north acros the Kind Sea. 
Only one of the three ships who set sail from the city of Rond reached the unihabiteted coast. 
The land, they arrived to, was scorching hell: desert, mountains, and only few walleys. Only few shalow rivers carried their waters to the Kind Sea. However, people of Rond had nowhere to go: their ships where wreck, half of them hardly reached the shore and another half needed a lot of repairs. And so they started rebuilding.
After 40 years they managed to establish 5 cities: Teb, Rond, Kleith, Fisdur and the capitol city Erid build where to major rivers meet. By that time a new religion of Red God apeared and a lot of lowborn people took after it. 

In another 50 years the Kingdom of Epyr suffered 2 civil wars and a period of chaos and anarchy but lets skip it for now. 

At the years one hundred and twelve since the Landing the kingdom was triving: The walleys were full of game, rivers were full of fish, sea offered a lot of fish to catch. Deep in the mountains riches awaited and few decades since Landing the mines were dug. And various rare and expencive metals, like gold and silver, along with so needed copper and tin,started to flow to cities of Epyr. 

By that time the Red God was major diety. The holy city of Rond, named after fallen Kingdom, was the center of this religion. Build in the middle of the desert city trived on extraction of salt, rare gems found in deep caverns north-east of the city and countless number of pilgrims visiting the House of Sun. 

The first trade routes were established recently with the tribes further north. Furs, food and so needed wood was imported and jewelery, salt, fish and even some weapons were sold. And so the time came when kingdom was ready to discover what lies in east. Acros the lifeless desert. And so, the Just Council along with high priest of the Red God started to send scouts and expeditions up there.