Planet Raagna
 - The land of two suns
=========

Physics
---------

Third planet in this solar system, with an obital period of 512 days.
Slighlty bigger than earth, with stronger gravity. (G_Raagna = 1.1G_Earth)
Gravity change can be aclimatized to and completely ignored, unless dealing with
precise calculations.

Su (larger sun) is much larger than Un (lesser star) thus it appears that Un is 
orbiting Su, with a perceived period of 32 days. Actual period is slightly shorter.

Planet spins in the same direction as Earth (east is in the east =])

Known solar system, by order:

Su and Un       -- stars
Lumos           -- little dark servant of the stars.
Tanisi          -- shiny colorful planet, similar to Venus in mythology.
Raagna
Ring of Tilkon  -- ring of asteroids, frequently causing meteor showers in Raagna.
Bohas           -- blue planet, god of open waters.
Hohasat         -- red planet, equivalent to hell in mythology. Gates of Hohasat
                   are protected by three giants, which came from three visible
                   satelites of Hohasat.

Other effects:

Tides are related to suns alingnment relative to Raagna. This means that tides
on Raagna are harsh and powerfull.

Weather changes have monthly micro periods. Temperature is dependant on both suns.
Larger periods dependant on Raanga's orbit form similar seasons as in Earth.

Geography
---------

Currently only one continent is created, so many others may exist.
Choice of continent names. Add stars to most applicable:
 Talmir -- *
 Aon    --
 Reona  --
 Morkal --

Created regions:
  Bargore tundra -- Lies on Valgart north bank, between Iron mountains and Kagar lake,
home of several human nomad tribes. Ancient 'Ghost gate' is positioned in the middle of
this particular nowhere. 
  Valgart river valey -- Fertile valey, which is inhabited by orcs and humans. The river starts
high in Iron mountains and flows all the way to the Shardtooth sea. Powerfull strams at the base
of this river with several tributaries bringing waters from nearby valeys makes Valgart nearly
incrossable downstream from lake Kagar. Fort Horth is the last place where one can cross this
river by bridge. River is sailable from Capital of Ironfire, and is (or at least was before the war)
the main route to Shardtooth sea and beond.
  Shardtooth sea -- Inland sea which connects to ocean in the east by Strait of Pugrrgar (Splatered Gold)
  Grasslands of Graze -- Soft hills lying between two tributaries of Valgart. Perfect place for animal
husbandry.
  Bungarth Hills -- splatter of hills near the lake Kagar. Fort Horth -- human stronghold --
is built on one of them.
  Hiassing swamps -- misterious and deadly marshland placed south from silver bay, where 
Valgart gives its waters to the sea.
  Nordic/Freezing wastes -- north of Bargore tundra, where climate becomes arid and cold,
lies unwelcoming wastes, which have brought end to many unwary adventurers.
  Death valey -- desert in the south, trapped by mountains in the west and hills in the east,
with a huge river canyon eroded in red stone.
  The Dark (Kagar) woods -- magical forest just around the lake Kagar (both of which were
named by orcs. Hence 'Dark Lake', 'Dark River', 'Dark Forest', 'Town Near the Dark'. Orcs
are not the most creative species around...)
  ... consult the map for others ...

This continent spans weather from freezing to rainforests, with high mountains
verticaly aligned near west coast. Shardtooth sea in intercontinental sea similar
to Mediteranian sea. It joins the ocean in the east over some astonishing natural
wonder, which is not yet created. (Proposal for this wonder: Strait of Pugrrgar, something
between a fiord and a strait and an astounding view when the Su and Un rises.)

Cultural specifics
----------

Time calculation is one of the greatest achievements of this era. This era is calculated
from 'The Grand Pact' which settled a common time calculation scheme among humans
and orcs. Currently it is Summer of year 335 of The Grand Pact.



